readme.md, before:

# Lionel Garcia

Astrophysicist and Data Scientist. From academia to industry.

📄 34 refereed publications, 774 citations.

⚙️ Python, C, C++, git, GitHub CI/CD, JAX, TensorFlow, HTML/CSS/JS, VueJS, Svelte, SQL.

## Experience


**Center for Computational Astrophysics – Research Fellow**, *New York City, USA (2023–2025)*

  - Led a high-impact [scientific program](https://www.stsci.edu/jwst-program-info/program/?program=5799) with the James Webb Space Telescope, managing a team of 15 scientists.
  - Developed, released, and maintained [jaxoplanet](https://github.com/exoplanet-dev/jaxoplanet) (a suite of models to analyze large astronomical time-series datasets), [nuance](https://github.com/lgrcia/nuance) (a Gaussian process algorithm to detect periodic signals in time-series dominated by red noise), and [spotter](https://github.com/lgrcia/spotter) (a framework to stochastically model active stellar surfaces). These tools are powered by JAX and optimized for GPUs/TPUs.
  - Published all research as open-source Python packages with comprehensive documentation, CI/CD, and unit testing.


**University of Liège – Graduate Research Assistant**, *Belgium (2019–2023)*

  - Maintained and remotely operated large robotic telescopes for the [SPECULOOS](https://www.speculoos.uliege.be/cms/c_4259452/en/speculoos?id=c_4259452) project. Developed a fully automated image processing pipeline running daily to transform raw data into scientific products. Built and maintained web dashboards for data analysis monitoring and visualization (40 users).
  - Developed, released, and maintained [prose](https://github.com/lgrcia/prose) (astronomical image processing pipelines), [twirl](https://github.com/lgrcia/twirl) (pattern matching for stellar asterisms), and [ballet](https://huggingface.co/lgrcia/ballet) (CNN for stellar PSF fitting).


**European Space Agency – Engineer**, *Noordwijk, Netherlands (2017–2018)*

  - Applied machine learning to collect data and predict costs for future space missions.


**CERN – Technical Student**, *Geneva, Switzerland (2016–2017)*

  - Designed the [data analysis workflow](https://github.com/lgrcia/BWS-diagnostic) for calibrating a Large Hadron Collider instrument.


## Education

- **PhD in Astronomy – University of Liège**, *Belgium (2023)*
- **Engineering Degree in Optical Systems – Institut d'Optique**, *Paris, France (2017)*
- **Master in Computer Science – University of Bordeaux**, *France (2017)*
- **License in Physics – University Paris-Saclay**, *France (2014)*

Commit message:

feat: add current freelance experience. url to ADS orcid

readme.md, after:

# Lionel Garcia

Astrophysicist and Data Scientist. From academia to industry.

📄 35 refereed publications, 946 citations.

⚙️ Python, C, C++, git, GitHub CI/CD, JAX, TensorFlow, HTML/CSS/JS, VueJS, Svelte, SQL.

## Experience


**Freelance - Scientific Software Development**, *France (2025–Present)*

  - Providing scientific software development services to academic and industrial clients. Specializing in data analysis workflows and pipeline development.
  - Currently working on astronomy-relate projects.


**Center for Computational Astrophysics – Research Fellow**, *New York City, USA (2023–2025)*

  - Led a high-impact [scientific program](https://www.stsci.edu/jwst-program-info/program/?program=5799) with the James Webb Space Telescope, managing a team of 15 scientists.
  - Developed, released, and maintained [jaxoplanet](https://github.com/exoplanet-dev/jaxoplanet) (a suite of models to analyze large astronomical time-series datasets), [nuance](https://github.com/lgrcia/nuance) (a Gaussian process algorithm to detect periodic signals in time-series dominated by red noise), and [spotter](https://github.com/lgrcia/spotter) (a framework to stochastically model active stellar surfaces). These tools are powered by JAX, optimized for GPUs/TPUs, and used in the context of Bayesian modeling, inference and machine learning applications.
  - Published all research as open-source Python packages with comprehensive documentation, CI/CD, and unit testing.


**University of Liège – Graduate Research Assistant**, *Belgium (2019–2023)*

  - Maintained and remotely operated large robotic telescopes for the [SPECULOOS](https://www.speculoos.uliege.be/cms/c_4259452/en/speculoos?id=c_4259452) project. Developed a fully automated image processing pipeline running daily to transform raw data into scientific products. Built and maintained web dashboards for data analysis monitoring and visualization (40 users).
  - Developed, released, and maintained [prose](https://github.com/lgrcia/prose) (astronomical image processing pipelines), [twirl](https://github.com/lgrcia/twirl) (pattern matching for stellar asterisms), and [ballet](https://huggingface.co/lgrcia/ballet) (CNN for stellar PSF fitting).


**European Space Agency – Engineer**, *Noordwijk, Netherlands (2017–2018)*

  - Applied machine learning to collect data and predict costs for future space missions.


**CERN – Technical Student**, *Geneva, Switzerland (2016–2017)*

  - Designed the [data analysis workflow](https://github.com/lgrcia/BWS-diagnostic) for calibrating a Large Hadron Collider instrument.


## Education

- **PhD in Astronomy – University of Liège**, *Belgium (2023)*
- **Engineering Degree in Optical Systems – Institut d'Optique**, *Paris, France (2017)*
- **Master in Computer Science – University of Bordeaux**, *France (2017)*
- **License in Physics – University Paris-Saclay**, *France (2014)*
